# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* Performance - The performance of the game as it grows in size will be very limited due to it being browser based.
* Enemies - Zombies are always following the player no matter how close they are.
* Length of Gameplay - The map is quite small as it only has 5 sections/levels and only 1 boss. Also when the zombies die they do not respawn meaning when the game is finished there is not much to do.
* Travelling - Traversing the map is difficult and repetitive.
* Crafting and weapons - There is only one material in the game and there is no choice on what you want to craft and there is also only one type of weapon which makes the game feel repetitive.
* Field of View - The player has no limit on how far they can see which means that they can anticipate enemies.
* Menu and Saving - There is no menu when you start the game and the player cannot save their progress.

## Maintenance

The abiltity maintain a game is mostly reliant on the size of the game as if the game does not have many features then it is easier to maintain especially if you are just hosting it online but if I do add more features and make the game larger then it will be harder to maintain.

#### Current Size

To keep it at its current size the game I would need a short term development plan for the game that would fix the bugs that I found in testing. The limitations of the project that I listed above would not need to be developed. After that I would need to repeat the testing phase and to make sure that I have not caused more bugs. After this, because the game is finished, I would be able to host the website for public use. Also I would want to add support for WASD controls which was identified as a problem in my testing phase.

This project is extremely maintainable as all I would have to do is host the game for minimal costs due to it not making me any revenue and as long as the sight traffic was low enough. If the sight traffic increases then there may be more costs. The game is completely local so there are no security risks with online play.

#### Continued Growth

If I decided to add the features that I listed above I would both need to a short term development plan that I stated earlier and then I would need to make a plan to complete features to fix the current limitiations of the project that I listed above.

After adding this the game will still be a relatively small size but because I want to change it from being web based to another method of distribution it may require some more funding and I may need some help if I were to upload it to a popular game distribution platform like Steam. Also if I wanted more success in my game I would need more people to work on expanding the game in more areas like making sure there are no exploits or bugs in the game. This would serve to make the game more popular and this would create more demand for extra features.

But this is not necessary and after I were to add the limitation features above I would be able to most likely be able to distribute my game myself(probably for free) and all of the [1.5-success-criteria.md](../1-analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md "mention") would be completed.

## Future Development

### Short Term

#### Bug Fixes

The first thing that I will need to address is the bugs in the game. These bugs and methods to fix them are:

* A person can be pushed through the wall by the zombies(collisions) - I will need to make sure that the collisions work and that the zombies are not aiming for the center of the player so that they don't push them.
* Bullets don't always disappear after they hit the wall if you are stood too far away(collisions) - I need to look at the logic of the function that plays when there is a bullet collision and make sure that it can handle two or more bullets at a time and wont delete bullets that have just been made instead of the bullet that has collided.
* The movement in the game does not always work because pressing two of the arrow keys at the same time can make the logic of the movement not work when going in a diagnal direction e.g. left and up -  I will need to look at the logic and make sure that nothing is trying to do something that will not allow something else to happen.
* Health takes a while to decrease - I need to make sure that the health is taken before anything else happens so that when a zombie and the player contact they will immediately loose health.

A feature that I would want to add to the game in the short term due to the feature being small is adding WASD support as this would make the game easier to play and it will not take a long time to do. This can be adressed during at the same time that I am fixing the movement. Another feature that I would need to change is the spawning as the zombies can spawn in the same building that the player can spawn in which I would need to change but this would be simple to fix.\
\
After fixing these bugs the game should be bug free(which will need to be verified by another stage of testing which I mentioned above) and ready to be deployed on vercel or another similar web hosting service. I could then start with long term development(like adding new features) or I could finish development and leave the game like that which would be fine as it would be playable at that point as it has an objective and it is challenging which are two of the things that I outlined in [1.1-problem-identification.md](../1-analysis/1.1-problem-identification.md "mention").

### Long Term&#x20;

#### Addressing Limitations

* Performance - This can be addressed by changing the game from a web game to an application that does not rely on anything else to run.
* Enemies - This can be changed by making the zombies only follow the player when they are in proximity of them. This could also link to field of view as the zombies preferably should only follow the player when they can see each other.
* Length of Gameplay - To do this I would need to edit the map with the map editor and add in a second boss that would be harder than the first but both of these things would be easy.
* Travelling - This would involve adding vehicles into the game which would be a game object that could let you travel around the world faster.
* Field of View - To fix this issue I would restrict the field of view to only a few meters ahead of the player.
* Menu and Saving - This is another feature that I could not implement due to time constraints but it would benefit the game to have. To do this I would have to add a menu system and saving system which I will detail below. This will be my main priority if I choose to take development any further.
* Game Art - To make the 2D graphics look better I would commission some 2D art work and this would make the game look better.

#### Standalone Application

Because this game is web-based the performance is limited to the browser making it a standalone application would make the performance based on the limitations of the computer and not on the browser which often limit the amount of RAM and CPU usage that one tab can use. This will allow the game to use more of the computer's resources and the game could become more complex without forfeiting performance. To do this I would need to find another medium of coding this like a game engine.

#### Respawning

For respawning the zombies the game would need to keep a count of how many zombies are alive which could be done with a simple counter for when one is spawned and when on is killed. I would also need to spawn the zombies at different rates in different parts of the map and far away from the player so that the game is fair and they have a chance.

#### Vehicles

This would be a better way of travelling the world than just walking but it would have a limited range based on fuel which would be another collectible in the game to continue to have challenge in the game. This is addressed in the success criteria and is not completed in my version of the game due to it not being necessary but, now that I have time to add it, it would be nice to add.

#### Field of View

To implement a limited field of view I would need to use a program that could calculate where the light would fall and therefore only show the player the parts that are in the players view. In Phaser there are libraries that you can use to implement this easier but because I would be moving to a standalone application I would need to either do this myself or find another library that is similar in the other medium that I choose to make my other game and this would be a challenge.

#### Menu

First of all you would need a screen that showed up before the game started with some options. The options would be making a new game, loading a previously saved game. An in-game menu would need to be triggered by a button to give the user the ability to save and quit to the menu during the game e.g. esc. This would then put the game into a pause state like the Game Over screen. Then a user interface would appear with buttons to do with quitting or saving your progress after this.

#### Saving

To save I would need to store the players progress like where they are in the map and what materials they have. This would then be stored in a local file which would be easier to implement on a standalone local application and this is one of the reasons that I was not able to implement this as it would have taken too long to implement saving when the site would have to remember the player.

#### Testing

My testing would have to be similar to that I have already done. I would need to implement regular testing similar to the testing in my development cycles. After this I would need to implement a full stage of testing to find bugs which is what I have done before in my project.

#### Future Limitations

* Online - There will not be any competition between other players.
* Story - As the game is single player, if there is no story the player may not find a reason to play the game as the concept is quite simple.
* 2D - The game is 2D and therefore the game will always be quite simplistic but this does bring some positives as no matter how complex the game becomes it will most likely not have high hardware requirements.
