# 1.1 Problem Identification

### Why do people play video games?

A key part to understand before creating a video game is understanding why people play video games.  Motivation to play video games comes from a persons self-efficacy(their own confidence in their ability to complete a task necessary for specific performance attainments) to complete a  certain task in the virtual environment, which leads to satisfaction when you have managed to complete the task, this then means that the player continues to interact with the virtual environment because of the motivation that they have gained from completing the task and therefore they will gain new competencies as they progress which will again increase their motivation to interact more.  People feel this sense of satisfaction because it is inherently satisfactory to bring about a change to the environment, like repeatedly turning on and off a light switch.  This cycle of motivation is called effectance motivation.  The cycle is also affected by failures and challenge alongside success experienced whilst playing([Klimmt and Hartmann, 2006, pp.138–139](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).



### The Gaming Industry in the COVID-19 pandemic

Another reason why people are starting to play video games is because over the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020, due to the inability of the public to participate in activities outside of their household, leading to video games sales approached $1.6 billion which is a 35% year over year increase([Smith, 2020](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).  Games are a way to escape reality so when we were locked down video games gave people a way to effect a virtual environment as being at home meant that many had little control outside of their house.  Even though many of the restriction have now been lifted, people have started using games as a way of socialisation with places that they cannot travel to which will result in many more people continuing to play games to interact with people that are to far away to travel to.  This is also true as many of the most popular games over the pandemic required technology like game console - for example animal crossing required you to have a Nintendo Switch - so many people will continue to use these after the COVID restrictions are lifted.  Over 2020, it is said that Britons spent about £7 billion on video games([Waterson, 2021](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)) which shows that people are serious about continuing their new pass-time and that it is not just a temporary increase in the gaming industry.



### The Benefits of Video Games

Games also promote cognitive benefits.  This links to effectance motivation cycle as when the player interacts with the games environment in the they develop more competencies([Klimmt and Hartmann, 2006, pp.138–139](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).  For example, in shooter games players have shown faster and more accurate attention allocation, higher spatial resolution, and enhanced mental rotation abilities([Green and Bavelier, 2012](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).  The spatial skill benefits of playing video games are comparable to a year long university level course([Uttal et al., 2013](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).  Furthermore, video games promote greater creativity which is not found when using other pieces of technology for a similar amount of time([Granic, Lobel and Rutger C. M. E. Engels, 2014](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).



### Why a 2D survival game?

The first 2D game, PONG, was a ground breaking game and still beloved to this day.  Many of the highest grossing games like Mario which has 50 million units sold([Clement, 2021a](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)) are 2 dimensional with Mario being one of the most well recognized games to exist.  Survival games are also a huge market as Minecraft has the highest sales in the world selling over 200 million units([Clement, 2021b](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)) and by October 2020 had exceeded 131 million monthly active users([Vincent, 2020](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).  Many 2D survival games have also been very successful including Terraria which has sold 14 million units worldwide([Clement, 2021c](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).  The theme of zombies is also very prominent and has been the focal point of many very famous shows and films including the walking dead, which on top of this, had a very popular video game collaboration with the escapists called The Escapists: Walking Dead.  The last of Us Part II is a game based on zombies that performed very well as it had 2.8 million digital sales in the first month([Clement, 2021d](../reference-list-problem-identification.md)).
