# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Design and Graphics

### Map

The map needs to be so that the player has space to explore.  I can use a map editor to design a map which will have preloaded building, with some level of destruction of things like windows and doors, and to create places for bosses/harder enemies to be for the player to have to confront for the story to continue and get better items.

### Top-down Camera View

The game's perspective will be above the player looking down similar to things like Google Maps which will give the game a more realistic feeling and make it less linear as you can explore the map in greater detail as you have East, West, North, and South which are explorable which is more preferable than the side-scrolling view as you can only explore left and right and the up and down is limited by gravity.

## Mechanics

### Controls

Because the game will be a web game, it will only be available on a computer with internet access.  Due to this, the game's controls will use the keyboard.

## User Interface and Functionality

### Saving Progress

As this game is a survival game with a story the player will want to be able to save their progress through the story and the amount of things they have collected and built.  This means saving will be a crucial feature of the game as otherwise the player will have to complete the story without any breaks and will have no incentive to build any long lasting defences against the zombies as they will not be able to keep them.

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
