# 1.4b Computational Methods

## Thinking Abstractly and Visualisation

Abstraction is removing unnecessary details from a problem so that the solutions will be more simple and efficient by only focussing on the essential details to solve the problem. This will make the game more enjoyable as you can make core aspects of the game more fun. My key features will be:

* A map that is laid out to appear like a town with roads, paths/sidewalks, and houses. This does will not need to be highly populated by objects or items like cars and shrubs and will focus mostly on the street. The layout of the map will dictate the progression of the game.
* A player which will be able to move in all directions(up, down, left and right). The player then will have the ability to fire a weapon, attack the zombies and to collect materials and upgrade their weapons. This will be controlled by the user.
* The map will be arranged in layers. I have previously mentioned the first two layers in the first point as the parts of the map that the player can go over are the lower layer and the parts that the player collides with are the higher layer. The other layers that I will include will be for objects like crafting materials fuels and vehicles.
* The main challenge in my game will be zombies. They will spawn in all areas of the map and they will be more dense in harder parts of the game around later the bosses of the later part of the story. There will be multiple types of zombies, like bosses which are zombies that are particularly hard to defeat and will require you to prepare which spawn in a certain zone in the map(a boss).
* When the player collides with a zombie they will loose some health from their health bar and when their health bar reaches 0 they will loose/die in the game. The amount of health that the player uses will be dependent on the amount of zombies are touching them and therefore the loss of health will be calculated by each zombie independently. Also there will need to be a delay between the zombies taking the health so that all of the health is not lost at once. Also the zombies will need a health bar for when they are hit by the player.&#x20;
* The player will need to be able to fill vehicles with fuel. Once this is done then the player should be able to drive the vehicle and they will be invulnerable to the zombies.

## Thinking Ahead

In terms of computational thinking, thinking ahead is thinking about what will be the inputs and preconditions needed to efficiently solve the problem and output the solution. This is necessary as you need to consider what you want the solution to be like and then consider the steps that are necessary to get to your desired point.

Some aspects of the game are more important than others and need to be completed before the rest of the game as they will be a constant for all of the other features. For my game it will be the map and the player(including movement) as it is necessary to be loaded before I can add more interactivity and allow the player to move around somewhere and the character is the essential part of the game that the user will interact with.

## Thinking Procedurally and Decomposition

Decomposition is the process of breaking a larger problem in to smaller and more manageable sub-problems which are easier to solve, understand, then programme. This is especially important when creating a game as the task of creating a game seems unmanageable and you would not know where to start but if you decompose it into a smaller and more manageable problem. This also makes the it easier to refactor or edit certain parts of the code which is used often to make the game more efficient.

The subtasks that I will be focusing on will be outlined in my [success criteria](1.5-success-criteria.md) and the completion will be documented in my [development cycles](broken-reference).

## Thinking Logically

Thinking logically is choosing where decisions need to be made and what the conditions will do to an outcome, which is necessary in game development as you need to decide where decisions are made in the game and how the state of the game now will affect the final outcome of the decisions. Some of the main decisions in my game will be:

* When the a key is pressed, the game needs to decide how this will affect the game. For example, if the player presses W, the game will move the player forward.
* The zombies also need to be able to follow the player if they come into contact with the player.
* When the player attempts collects materials the game needs to decide what to do with the material(if they have space to carry it or not and if it will go towards crafting something).
* When a projectile is fired the game needs to decide the direction that it will go and this will be dependent on the input that the player puts in.

## Thinking Concurrently

Thinking concurrently is considering what tasks can be done at the same time to make the game run smoothly while multiple processes are running concurrently. Video games look like they have many things running concurrently as there can be two objects falling at the same time for example. Games have multiple tasks run each frame refresh and will have to calculate the velocity of the balls using the acceleration of the balls in due to gravity and then where the balls will be on the screen after they have accelerated and fallen every single frame. Some of the features in my game that need to be run at the same time are:

* The screen needs to refresh to display the location and current state of the player.
* The game also needs to determine the position of enemies and objects even if they are too far away from the player that they are not displayed on the screen.

Concurrent execution is handled by most game engines with an update function which is called every frame and this will make it seem like everything is happening concurrently.
